index.md, before:

# Gamepad Vibration Button Mapper

## Foreword

I came up with this project when I bought a new gamepad for PC games, only to realize many games do not have full gamepad support. Steam fortuneatly has a feature that allows you to remap keyboard and mouse controls onto gamepads, but their haptics feature only supports gamepads with linear actuators (ie steam controller and Nintendo Switch gamepad). But most standard gamepads, such as the ubiquitous Xbox gamepad, uses spinning motors with weights to produce rumble. To remedy this, I wrote this program in order to get vibration feedback on button presses. While not as ideal has having full controller support from the games, even having simple vibrations can make a game more enjoyable.

## Description

This program maps vibrations to gamepad button inputs. Vibrations come in two varieties, continuous vibrations that continue to vibrate when a button is held, and once-off vibrations that vibrates briefly when buttons are pressed. This program only supports controllers using XINPUT.

## Design Notes

- The program only outputs a single vibration type at a time. If multiple inputs are given, the program will priortize continuous vibrations with the greatest vibration speed. If no continuous vibrations are active, once-off vibrations with greatest vibrations speeds are prioritized.
- The program runs at a rate of 60 ticks-per-seconds. This slower rate is neccessary to properly detect positive-edge inputs, otherwise inputs will be dropped. 60 ticks-per-second is used because 60frames-per-second is standard in many video games, but other tick rates suck as 120tps or 30tps will work just as well.
- This program with built in VisualStudio2013 as a win32 console application. VisualStudio files have been omitted for convenience so the code can be easily adapted for use an other IDEs.

## Requiredments

- Windows 10 (Windows 11 probably works, but has not been tested)
- Xinput9_1_0.lib library (included with most Windows installations)

## Future Improvements

- add support for multiple controllers
- organize arrays better (tuples? vectors?)
- add profiles supports, saving and loading different profiles for different games
- create a UI rather than console application
- give each button input individual pulse lengths
- rename variables to be easier to understand
  - name vibration pulses in terms of frequencey

## Special Thanks

- [Katy's Code XINPUT Tutorial](https://katyscode.wordpress.com/2013/08/30/xinput-tutorial-part-1-adding-gamepad-support-to-your-windows-game/)
- [Lawrence McCauley Gamepad XINPUT Tutorial](https://lcmccauley.wordpress.com/2014/01/05/gamepad-input-tutorial/)

Commit message:

update after creating GamepadVib class

index.md, after:

# Gamepad Vibration Button Mapper

## Foreword

I came up with this project when I bought a new gamepad for PC games, only to realize many games do not have full gamepad support. Steam fortuneatly has a feature that allows you to remap keyboard and mouse controls onto gamepads, but their haptics feature only supports gamepads with linear actuators (ie steam controller and Nintendo Switch gamepad). But most standard gamepads, such as the ubiquitous Xbox gamepad, uses spinning motors with weights to produce rumble. To remedy this, I wrote this program in order to get vibration feedback on button presses. While not as ideal has having full controller support from the games, even having simple vibrations can make a game more enjoyable.

## Description

This program maps vibrations to gamepad button inputs. Vibrations come in two varieties, continuous vibrations that continue to vibrate when a button is held, and once-off vibrations that vibrates briefly when buttons are pressed. This program only supports controllers using XINPUT.

## Design Notes

- The program only outputs a single vibration type at a time. If multiple inputs are given, the program will priortize continuous vibrations with the greatest vibration speed. If no continuous vibrations are active, once-off vibrations with greatest vibrations speeds are prioritized.
- The program runs at a rate of 60 ticks-per-seconds. This slower rate is neccessary to properly detect positive-edge inputs, otherwise inputs will be dropped. 60 ticks-per-second is used because 60frames-per-second is standard in many video games, but other tick rates suck as 120tps or 30tps will work just as well.
- This program with built in VisualStudio2013 as a win32 console application. VisualStudio files have been omitted for convenience so the code can be easily adapted for use an other IDEs.

## Requiredments

- Windows 10 (Windows 11 probably works, but has not been tested)
- Xinput9_1_0.lib library (included with most Windows installations)

## Future Improvements

- add support for multiple controllers
- ~~organize arrays better (tuples? vectors?)~~
- add profiles support, saving and loading different profiles for different games
- create a UI rather than console application
- ~~give each button input individual pulse lengths~~
- ~~rename variables to be easier to understand~~
  - ~~name vibration pulses in terms of frequencey~~
- reformat GamepadVib class to be more generic and more intuitive to use

## Special Thanks

- [Katy's Code XINPUT Tutorial](https://katyscode.wordpress.com/2013/08/30/xinput-tutorial-part-1-adding-gamepad-support-to-your-windows-game/)
- [Lawrence McCauley Gamepad XINPUT Tutorial](https://lcmccauley.wordpress.com/2014/01/05/gamepad-input-tutorial/)
